Inform users 8.0 release is last one to support autotools (#819)
neuronsimulator/nrn: README.md

# NEURON
NEURON is a simulator for models of neurons and networks of neuron.
See [http://neuron.yale.edu](http://neuron.yale.edu) for installers, source code,
documentation, tutorials, announcements of courses and conferences,
and a discussion forum.

## Installing Binary Distributions

NEURON provided binary installers for Linux, Mac and Windows platforms. You can find latest installers for Mac and Windows platform [here](https://neuron.yale.edu/ftp/neuron/versions/alpha/). For linux and Mac platforms you can install Python 3 wheel as:

```
pip3 install neuron
```

## Installing from source

If you want to build latest version from source, you can find instructions hereafter. Currently we are supporting two build systems:

- [CMake](#build-cmake) (__recommended__)
- [Autotools](#build-autotools) (legacy, minimum support)

> Note that starting from 8.0 release, we recommend users to use CMake as primary build system for NEURON installation. We would be grateful for any feedback or issues you encounter using CMake based build system. Please [report an issue here](https://github.com/neuronsimulator/nrn/issues) and we will be happy to help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that starting with the 8.0 release, we recommend users to use CMake as the primary build system for NEURON. We would be grateful for any feedback or issues you encounter using the CMake-based build system. Please [report any issue here](https://github.com/neuronsimulator/nrn/issues) and we will be happy to help.
```

- MPI (for parallel)
- X11 (Linux) or XQuartz (MacOS) (for GUI)

<a name="build-cmake"></a>
### Build using CMake

> Starting from 7.8.1 release, NEURON can be installed using [CMake build system](https://cmake.org/). One of the primary advantage of CMake based build system is cross platform support and integration with other projects like [Interviews](https://github.com/neuronsimulator/iv), [CoreNEURON](https://github.com/BlueBrain/CoreNeuron/), [NMODL](https://github.com/BlueBrain/nmodl/) etc. Such projects are now integrated into single CMake based build system and they can be installed together as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with the 7.8.1 release, NEURON can be installed using the [CMake build system](https://cmake.org/). One of the primary advantages of a CMake-based build system is cross platform support and integration with other projects like [Interviews](https://github.com/neuronsimulator/iv), [CoreNEURON](https://github.com/BlueBrain/CoreNeuron/), [NMODL](https://github.com/BlueBrain/nmodl/) etc. These projects are now integrated into single a CMake-based build system and they can be installed together as shown below:
```

  cd build
  ```

> 3. If you are building on Cray system with GNU toolchain, you have to set following environmental variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If you are building on Cray systems with a GNU toolchain, you have to set following environmental variable:
```

```
export CRAYPE_LINK_TYPE=dynamic
```

> 4. Run cmake with the appropriate options (see below for list of common options). \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run `cmake` with the appropriate options (see below for a list of common options). \
```

A full list of options can be found in `nrn/CMakeLists.txt` and defaults are shown in `nrn/cmake/BuildOptionDefaults.cmake`. \
e.g. a bare-bones install:

  ```
  cmake .. \
   -DNRN_ENABLE_INTERVIEWS=OFF \
   -DNRN_ENABLE_MPI=OFF \
   -DNRN_ENABLE_RX3D=OFF \
   -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path/to/install/directory
  ```

5. Build the code:

  ```
  make -j
  make install
  ```

> 6. Set PATH and PYTHONPATH environmental variables to use installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Set PATH and PYTHONPATH environmental variables to use the installation:
```

* **-DNRN\_ENABLE\_TESTS=ON** : Enable unit tests
* **-DPYTHON\_EXECUTABLE=/python/binary/path** : Use provided Python binary to build Python interface
* **-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/install/dir/path** : Location for installing
* **-DCORENRN\_ENABLE\_NMODL=ON** : Use [NMODL](https://github.com/BlueBrain/nmodl/) instead of [MOD2C](https://github.com/BlueBrain/mod2c/) for code generation
with CoreNEURON
* **-DNRN\_ENABLE\_BINARY_SPECIAL=ON** : Build special as a binary instead of shell script

Please refer to [docs/cmake_doc/options.rst](docs/cmake_doc/options.rst) for more information on the CMake options.

<a name="build-autotools"></a>
### Build using Autotools

> If you would like to have GUI support, you first need to install Interviews package available from GitHub [here](http://github.com/neuronsimulator/iv) or tarball provided [here](http://neuron.yale.edu/ftp/neuron/versions/alpha/). In case of git repository, first you need to run `build.sh` script to create the automake, autoconf, libtool generated files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to have GUI support, you first need to install the Interviews package available from GitHub [here](http://github.com/neuronsimulator/iv) or the tarball provided [here](http://neuron.yale.edu/ftp/neuron/versions/alpha/). In case of the former, first you need to run `build.sh` script to create the automake, autoconf, and libtool generated files:
```

```bash
sh build.sh
```

> And then run standard `configure`, `make` and `make install` steps to install Interviews:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then run the standard `configure`, `make` and `make install` steps to install Interviews:
```

```bash
./configure --prefix=/path/to/install/directory
make
make install
```

> To build NEURON we have to use same steps as Interviews i.e. if source is obtained from the git repository, run `build.sh` script to create the automake, autoconf, libtool generated files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build NEURON we have to use the same steps as Interviews, i.e., if the source is obtained from the git repository, run `build.sh` script to create the automake, autoconf, and libtool generated files:
```

```bash
sh build.sh
```

> and then run standard `configure`, `make` and `make install` steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then run the standard `configure`, `make` and `make install` steps:
```

```bash
./configure --prefix=/path/to/install/directory
make
make install
```

> You can set following environmental variables to use installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the following environmental variables to use the installation:
```

```bash
export PATH=/path/to/install/directory/<arch>/bin:$PATH              # replace <arch> with x86_64 or other platform directory
export PYTHONPATH=/path/to/install/directory/lib/python:$PYTHONPATH
```

> If you want to customize build, particularly useful configure options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to customize the build, particularly useful configure options are:
```

- `--prefix=/some/path` : Install in this location of your filesystem.
- `--without-x` : If the InterViews graphics library is not installed, disable GUI.
- `--with-iv=<prefix>/../iv` : If InterViews was not installed in <prefix>/../iv
- `--with-paranrn` : Parallel models on cluster computers using MPI
- `--with-nrnpython` : Use Python as an alternative interpreter (as well as the native HOC interpreter).
- `--with-nmodl-only` : Build nmodl only (in case of cross compiling)
- `--disable-rx3d` : Do not compile the cython translated 3-d rxd features

> For more details see the [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/neuronsimulator/nrn/blob/master/INSTALL.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional documentation see the [INSTALL file](INSTALL.md)
```
Could be "particularly for ancient systems" :)
